# Coordinate-based Inventory Management System 
 A coordinate-based Inventory Management System to improve business processes.

The objective of this program is to be able to locate and update products in the inventory. Currently, the main issue is a lack of a procedural method that everybody can follow under pressure and during a work day, with as little staff as possible.To address this, we need to have a well established backend that maintains the same structure of each product and their location in an inventory with a functional and efficient front-end GUI application that both seasoned sales team members and new hires can utilize for fast item search and auditing.

# Background
This background will explain my thought process and ideas. ***It is unnecessary to read this section to understand the section, however I believe it contextualizes my program and will serve to remind myself how I made some of the choices that I have made. You may skip this section entirely if needed.***

As lead developer, I want to be able to utilize my unique skillset in computer programming, data manipulation, and logistical improvement to dramtically improve the system we have in place in our store. My first shipment day at the store made me realize that the system that we had in place left a lot to be desired. The management team had actually challenged me to develop a better system to improve the store processes, and I accepted. In the following section, I will illustrate both the programming and non-programming improvements that could be made in order to help our company cut losses in time and resources.

Before we do this however, I wanted to quickly mention some of the inspiration that allowed me to develop this system. You may think my duties as a military logistics officer was the primary motivator for this, however the challenges presented in this store are vastly different from the ones we faced on base. In the military, there were multiple warehouses that had been mapped out in advance by my commanding officers and their higher ups that made my job a lot easier. Furthermore, there were often changes in the material that were coming into the base, however there was never any new 'products' that were entering the store. In a retail setting, the entry of a new product means it has to first be sorted by predicted demand, category, and product name in an appropriate way that allows for fast item retrieval. This of course was never a challenge in the military, as there was varying degrees of demand for newer products (Like bedding, soaps, or cigarettes), but all old and new materials were stored in the same boxes and bins in a fixed manner in all warehouses. In a retail setting, there is a need to constantly update the placement items with each shipment.   

Believe it or not, a source of inspiration for this system comes from video games like Minecraft and my most recent studies in Linear Algebra. For those who are not aware, Minecraft is a popular sandbox videogame that is so intricate and powerful that you can actually build a functioning [8-bit computer in game](https://www.minecraftforum.net/forums/minecraft-java-edition/redstone-discussion-and/redstone-creations/3043582-8-bit-computer-turing-complete). ***(Sidenote: This means you can in theory simulate anything from a calculator to Microsoft Word to even Minecraft within a computer designed in a Minecraft server!)*** I was inspired by the coordinate system in the game (As far as I know, it's one of the only games that has this feature to this extent), which every randomly generated world in Minecraft has, which allows users to always return to an exact location without fail (As long as you are not killed by mobs in the process). 

There's also linear algebra, which is one of the most interesting branches of intermediate Mathematics that I have been exposed to. It should be unsurprising that the three-dimensional coordinate system is inspired by a simple directional vector with the same number of components. A more advanced concept I thought about was bijection and polymorphism, which basically means that two spaces are 'equivalent' in a sense. As long as this system is designed in a correct way, I want the physical structure of the storage room to no longer matter, as the mapping of each product should be polymorphic to each space and should theoretically be able to map each unique product to each bin, no matter how many products there are and no matter the size or structure of storage. 
